a gay.
Guys,
Welcome back now,
I mentioned in the last lecture that we actually to evaluate to logical tests Our 1st 1 We
use the V.
Look up to find this start dates from our data table over here on evaluated that against
the date cell in row five on what we said is is the start date less than or equal to the
date?
Sell immediately above What we also need to know is the end date less than or equal to the
cell immediately above on one,
over to the right.
And to combine two logical tests,
we need to use the an function now up to their review.
Simple,
logical tests such as equals.
If open rackets,
this cell equals red,
Let's just keep it uniform.
Red close brackets,
comma value.
If true,
let's just say true comment value of false.
Let's just say falls.
Enter.
So they go E three does indeed equal reds and therefore we get a return value off.
True,
But if we covered the formula down,
we get returned value of false because e four doesn't equal Read.
It equals green until we turn it red.
In which case it will equal True again.
What we need to do is have a way of incorporating both of those logical tests into one
single formula.
So we get one returned results.
Now,
the way we do that is by using the excels built in function.
Andi.
Now,
unlike the spoken English,
where Andi would appear in between the two tests So this cell equals read on and this cell
equals green.
We have to put the and way up the front not immediately at the front will immediately after
the if so,
if open rackets.
And here's where the and goes We're gonna open brackets again on that will now give us
multiple logical tests or one after the other.
You can have dozens of these things,
but we only want to evaluate to finance.
So what I'm going to say is this cell equals bread.
Onda,
Comma.
This is now my second logical test on this cell equals,
let's say green because it does close quotes,
close brackets and that finishes a logical tests.
So you can see immediately after the end we open a bracket.
We put all of their logical tests which are separated by a comma,
so e three equals red and E four equal screen.
Then we close the brackets that finishes logical tests comma value.
If both off those statements are true,
returned true comma.
And if both of those statements are true,
that means both could be false or the first could be true.
And the second false or the first is false.
And the second is true.
Anything but both of those being true return false hopes I wish could spell falls and enter
.
So there you go.
E three does indeed equal Red Andi E four equals green,
so therefore we return a value off troops.
If this said Blue,
for argument's sake,
would get a return value of false because the second Andi the second logical test fails.
Obviously,
unless we change that to,
say blue,
in which case it would return true again.
OK,
so simply that's how you used the and the important thing being that you put it at the
front and not in between your logical tests says I'm just type Onda.
Open your brackets,
you can have multiple logical tests,
just separate them with the Kama and then wrap your if statement around it.
OK,
so escape Now,
let's have a look at sheet to and see how we're going to incorporate that into here.
So,
firstly,
the if is good,
We can leave the if I'm just going to scroll this down a bit so we can see this on multiple
lines.
So if so far so good now I'm gonna insert my and open brackets.
No,
I'm into my first logical test.
Now.
I'm just gonna delete these bits off the end here because that is our first logical test V
Look up.
Absolute A six.
My data to our start date comma falls return an exact match.
And if that is less than or equal to see absolute five comma on next logical test,
it's going to be almost identical to the fair.
So what we're gonna do is we'll just copy that all the way across come a copy on pay,
so I'm just gonna stick that on a different line,
so it's a little easier to read.
So our psychological test if v look up a absolute a six,
my data.
But this time we want to look at column three because that's the end date.
On this time,
we want to know,
Is it greater than or equal to?
And it's not gonna be this cell.
It's gonna be this cell.
So instead of having that there,
what we're going to say is this one.
But we wanted in the same format.
So we want d absolute five.
So I'm just gonna hit f or a few times,
so we get ribs.
Missed it,
d absolute five close brackets.
Andi,
that encapsulate both of biological tests.
So now we can come back to what do we want to return?
If it's true,
Will want to return a one on what do we want to return if it's false and we want to return
a zero so close brackets hit center and then let's copy that down Control and D on this
Copies across control Andi are so near.
Let's see if we can find one where it actually does start and finish in the same date.
In fact,
what we're gonna do is we'll butcher the days and now,
just so we can see this in action.
So I'm just gonna change that toe 1/8 of January 2010.
I'm just going to change that to 812010 on.
Let's have him just work in for a week.
So it's a finishes on the 18th of January 2010.
So now we're looking at Connor Phillips.
We can flip over here,
and here's common Phillips and they go.
He does indeed start work on the eighth of January,
which we can see just here.
And he finishes on the 15th of January,
which is bum bum bum bum bump.
That is his last working day.
So now we have ones all the way over here and zeros everywhere else.
So that's how we build our formula.
So the next thing we're gonna have a look at,
in fact,
there's one thing to watch out for when you do this,
let me just play right the way over to the end.
You'll notice that the last cell value also evaluates to one on.
That's because this cell is actually because it's empty.
It's evaluating to be in Excel speak the first of January in the year 1900.
So we do need to add one more thing way up the front,
just so we can get rid of that stray one right at the very end.
Okay.
Now,
to get rid of that stray one,
what we need to do is add another logical test way up the front.
So what we're gonna do you say,
if open brackets this cell here and we're going to go bump bump on the F four because it's
going to be de absolute five.
So it's not always gonna become on Davis.
Always going to be in Line five equals double quotes.
That is,
it is blank than the one users.
10 0 comma.
No,
if it isn't blank,
I went to carry on,
evaluate the rest of the formula,
So I'm just gonna come to the end,
and I'm going to close the brackets on his enter,
and then we're gonna copy that down Control and D on.
Copy that all the way across Control on our When we look over here,
we now have a zero.
And that's because that first logical test that we added in there.
Okay,
so that's how we get our ones and zeros a game on next.
We're gonna have a look at the conditional formatting to change that into a gallant bar.
Okay,
I'll see you in the next lecture.